CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Azure Python SDK

If you would like to become an active contributor to this project please
follow the instructions provided in [Microsoft Azure Projects Contribution Guidelines](https://opensource.microsoft.com/collaborate/).

## Generated code

If you want to contribute to a file that is generated (header contains `Code generated by Microsoft (R) AutoRest Code Generator.`), the best approach to open a PR on the initial Swagger specification, as we can NOT merge a PR on generated code (it would be replaced by next generation). See https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/ for details.

## Building and Testing

The Azure SDK team's Python CI leverages the tool `tox` to distribute tests to virtual environments, handle test dependency installation, and coordinate tooling reporting during PR/CI builds. This means that a dev working locally can reproduce _exactly_ what the build machine is doing.

[A Brief Overview of Tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

#### A Monorepo and Tox in Harmony

Traditionally, the `tox.ini` file for a package sits _alongside the setup.py_ in source code. The `azure-sdk-for-python` necessarily does not adhere to this policy. There are over one-hundred packages contained here-in. That's a lot of `tox.ini` files to maintain!

Instead, the CI system leverages an tox plugin called `tox-monorepo`. This plugin allows `tox` to act as if the `tox.ini` is located in whatever directory you executed tox in!

#### Tox Environments

A given `tox.ini` works on the concept of `test environments`. A given test environment is a combination of:

1. An identifier (or identifiers)
2. A targeted Python version
    1. `tox` will default to base python executing the `tox` command if no Python environment is specified
3. (optionally) an OS platform

Internally `tox` leverages `virtualenv` to create each test environment's virtual environment.

This means that once the `tox` workflow is in place, all tests will be executed _within a virtual environment._

To see the default environments from a specific `tox.ini` file, use the command `tox -l` in the same directory as the file itself.

> sdk-for-python/eng/tox> tox -l

```

whl
sdist

```

Unfortunately, the command `tox -l` only returns the _default_ test builds. The common `tox.ini` file also supports `pylint` and `mypy` environments.

### Example Usage of the common Azure SDK For Python `tox.ini`

Basic usage of `tox` within this monorepo is:

1. `pip install tox<4 tox-monorepo`
2. `cd` to target package folder
3. run `tox -c path/to/tox.ini`

The common `tox.ini` location is `eng/tox/tox.ini` within the repository.

If at any time you want to blow away the tox created virtual environments and start over, simply append `-r` to any tox invocation!

#### Example `azure-core` mypy

1. `cd` to `sdk/core/azure-core`
2. Run `tox -e mypy -c ../../../eng/tox/tox.ini`

#### Example `azure-storage-blob` tests

1. `cd` to `sdk/storage/azure-storage-blob`
2. Execute `tox -c ../../../eng/tox/tox.ini`

Note that we didn't provide an `environment` argument for this example. Reason here is that the _default_ environment selected by our common `tox.ini` file is one that runs `pytest`.

#### `whl` environment
Used for test execution across the spectrum of all the platforms we want to support. Maintained at a `platform specific` level just in case we run into platform-specific bugs.

* Installs the wheel, runs tests using the wheel

```
\> tox -e whl -c <path to tox.ini>

```

#### `sdist` environment
Used for the local dev loop.

* Installs package in editable mode
* Runs tests using the editable mode installation, not the wheel

```

\> tox -e sdist -c <path to tox.ini>

```

#### `pylint` environment
Pylint install and run.

```
\> tox -e pylint -c <path to tox.ini>
```


#### `mypy` environment
Mypy install and run.

```
\> tox -e mypy -c <path to tox.ini>
```

#### `sphinx` environment
Generate shpinx doc for this package.

```
\> tox -e sphinx -c <path to tox.ini>
```

### Custom Pytest Arguments

`tox` supports custom arguments, and the defined pytest environments within the common `tox.ini` also allow these. Essentially, separate the arguments you want passed to `pytest` by a `--` in your tox invocation.

[Tox Documentation on Positional Arguments](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example/general.html#interactively-passing-positional-arguments)

**Example: Invoke tox, breaking into the debugger on failure**
`tox -e whl -c ../../../eng/tox/tox.ini -- --pdb`

### Performance Testing

SDK performance testing is supported via the custom `perfstress` framework. For full details on this framework, and how to write and run tests for an SDK - see the [perfstress tests documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/doc/dev/perfstress_tests.md).

### More Reading

We maintain an [additional document](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/doc/eng_sys_checks.md) that has a ton of detail as to what is actually _happening_ in these executions.

### Dev Feed
Daily dev build version of Azure sdk packages for python are available and are uploaded to Azure devops feed daily. We have also created a tox environment to test a package against dev built version of dependent packages. Below is the link to Azure devops feed.
[`https://dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging?_a=feed&feed=azure-sdk-for-python`](https://dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging?_a=feed&feed=azure-sdk-for-python)

##### To install latest dev build version of a package
```
pip install <package-name> --extra-index-url https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging/azure-sdk-for-python/pypi/simple --pre
```

#### To Install a specific dev build version of a package
For e.g.
```
pip install azure-appconfiguration==1.0.0b6.dev20191205001 --extra-index-url https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging/azure-sdk-for-python/pypi/simple
```

To test a package being developed against latest dev build version of dependent packages:
a. cd to package root folder
b. run tox environment devtest

```
\> tox -e devtest -c <path to tox.ini>
```

This tox test( devtest) will fail if installed dependent packages are not dev build version.

## Code of Conduct
This project's code of conduct can be found in the
[CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md file](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
(v1.4.0 of the https://contributor-covenant.org/ CoC).

Commit message:

3rd Party Libs in Samples
Adding guidance on the proper usage of 3rd Party Libraries in our samples.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Azure Python SDK

If you would like to become an active contributor to this project please
follow the instructions provided in [Microsoft Azure Projects Contribution Guidelines](https://opensource.microsoft.com/collaborate/).

## Generated code

If you want to contribute to a file that is generated (header contains `Code generated by Microsoft (R) AutoRest Code Generator.`), the best approach to open a PR on the initial Swagger specification, as we can NOT merge a PR on generated code (it would be replaced by next generation). See https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/ for details.

## Building and Testing

The Azure SDK team's Python CI leverages the tool `tox` to distribute tests to virtual environments, handle test dependency installation, and coordinate tooling reporting during PR/CI builds. This means that a dev working locally can reproduce _exactly_ what the build machine is doing.

[A Brief Overview of Tox](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

#### A Monorepo and Tox in Harmony

Traditionally, the `tox.ini` file for a package sits _alongside the setup.py_ in source code. The `azure-sdk-for-python` necessarily does not adhere to this policy. There are over one-hundred packages contained here-in. That's a lot of `tox.ini` files to maintain!

Instead, the CI system leverages an tox plugin called `tox-monorepo`. This plugin allows `tox` to act as if the `tox.ini` is located in whatever directory you executed tox in!

#### Tox Environments

A given `tox.ini` works on the concept of `test environments`. A given test environment is a combination of:

1. An identifier (or identifiers)
2. A targeted Python version
    1. `tox` will default to base python executing the `tox` command if no Python environment is specified
3. (optionally) an OS platform

Internally `tox` leverages `virtualenv` to create each test environment's virtual environment.

This means that once the `tox` workflow is in place, all tests will be executed _within a virtual environment._

To see the default environments from a specific `tox.ini` file, use the command `tox -l` in the same directory as the file itself.

> sdk-for-python/eng/tox> tox -l

```

whl
sdist

```

Unfortunately, the command `tox -l` only returns the _default_ test builds. The common `tox.ini` file also supports `pylint` and `mypy` environments.

### Example Usage of the common Azure SDK For Python `tox.ini`

Basic usage of `tox` within this monorepo is:

1. `pip install tox<4 tox-monorepo`
2. `cd` to target package folder
3. run `tox -c path/to/tox.ini`

The common `tox.ini` location is `eng/tox/tox.ini` within the repository.

If at any time you want to blow away the tox created virtual environments and start over, simply append `-r` to any tox invocation!

#### Example `azure-core` mypy

1. `cd` to `sdk/core/azure-core`
2. Run `tox -e mypy -c ../../../eng/tox/tox.ini`

#### Example `azure-storage-blob` tests

1. `cd` to `sdk/storage/azure-storage-blob`
2. Execute `tox -c ../../../eng/tox/tox.ini`

Note that we didn't provide an `environment` argument for this example. Reason here is that the _default_ environment selected by our common `tox.ini` file is one that runs `pytest`.

#### `whl` environment
Used for test execution across the spectrum of all the platforms we want to support. Maintained at a `platform specific` level just in case we run into platform-specific bugs.

* Installs the wheel, runs tests using the wheel

```
\> tox -e whl -c <path to tox.ini>

```

#### `sdist` environment
Used for the local dev loop.

* Installs package in editable mode
* Runs tests using the editable mode installation, not the wheel

```

\> tox -e sdist -c <path to tox.ini>

```

#### `pylint` environment
Pylint install and run.

```
\> tox -e pylint -c <path to tox.ini>
```


#### `mypy` environment
Mypy install and run.

```
\> tox -e mypy -c <path to tox.ini>
```

#### `sphinx` environment
Generate shpinx doc for this package.

```
\> tox -e sphinx -c <path to tox.ini>
```

### Custom Pytest Arguments

`tox` supports custom arguments, and the defined pytest environments within the common `tox.ini` also allow these. Essentially, separate the arguments you want passed to `pytest` by a `--` in your tox invocation.

[Tox Documentation on Positional Arguments](https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example/general.html#interactively-passing-positional-arguments)

**Example: Invoke tox, breaking into the debugger on failure**
`tox -e whl -c ../../../eng/tox/tox.ini -- --pdb`

### Performance Testing

SDK performance testing is supported via the custom `perfstress` framework. For full details on this framework, and how to write and run tests for an SDK - see the [perfstress tests documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/doc/dev/perfstress_tests.md).

### More Reading

We maintain an [additional document](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/doc/eng_sys_checks.md) that has a ton of detail as to what is actually _happening_ in these executions.

### Dev Feed
Daily dev build version of Azure sdk packages for python are available and are uploaded to Azure devops feed daily. We have also created a tox environment to test a package against dev built version of dependent packages. Below is the link to Azure devops feed.
[`https://dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging?_a=feed&feed=azure-sdk-for-python`](https://dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging?_a=feed&feed=azure-sdk-for-python)

##### To install latest dev build version of a package
```
pip install <package-name> --extra-index-url https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging/azure-sdk-for-python/pypi/simple --pre
```

#### To Install a specific dev build version of a package
For e.g.
```
pip install azure-appconfiguration==1.0.0b6.dev20191205001 --extra-index-url https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/azure-sdk/public/_packaging/azure-sdk-for-python/pypi/simple
```

To test a package being developed against latest dev build version of dependent packages:
a. cd to package root folder
b. run tox environment devtest

```
\> tox -e devtest -c <path to tox.ini>
```

This tox test( devtest) will fail if installed dependent packages are not dev build version.

## Samples

### Third-party dependencies

Third party libraries should only be included in samples when necessary to demonstrate usage of an Azure SDK package; they should not be suggested or endorsed as alternatives to the Azure SDK.

When code samples take dependencies, readers should be able to use the material without significant license burden or research on terms. This goal requires restricting dependencies to certain types of open source or commercial licenses.

Samples may take the following categories of dependencies:

- **Open-source** : Open source offerings that use an [Open Source Initiative (OSI) approved license](https://opensource.org/licenses). Any component whose license isn't OSI-approved is considered a commercial offering. Prefer OSS projects that are members of any of the [OSS foundations that Microsoft is part of](https://opensource.microsoft.com/ecosystem/). Prefer permissive licenses for libraries, like [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) and [Apache 2](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0). Copy-left licenses like [GPL](https://opensource.org/licenses/gpl-license) are acceptable for tools, and OSs. [Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes), [Linux](https://github.com/torvalds/linux), and [Newtonsoft.Json](https://github.com/JamesNK/Newtonsoft.Json) are examples of this license type. Links to open source components should be to where the source is hosted, including any applicable license, such as a GitHub repository (or similar).

- **Commercial**: Commercial offerings that enable readers to learn from our content without unnecessary extra costs. Typically, the offering has some form of a community edition, or a free trial sufficient for its use in content. A commercial license may be a form of dual-license, or tiered license. Links to commercial components should be to the commercial site for the software, even if the source software is hosted publicly on GitHub (or similar).

- **Dual licensed**: Commercial offerings that enable readers to choose either license based on their needs. For example, if the offering has an OSS and commercial license, readers can  choose between them. [MySql](https://github.com/mysql/mysql-server) is an example of this license type.

- **Tiered licensed**: Offerings that enable readers to use the license tier that corresponds to their characteristics. For example, tiers may be available for students, hobbyists, or companies with defined revenue  thresholds. For offerings with tiered licenses, strive to limit our use in tutorials to the features available in the lowest tier. This policy enables the widest audience for the article. [Docker](https://www.docker.com/), [IdentityServer](https://duendesoftware.com/products/identityserver), [ImageSharp](https://sixlabors.com/products/imagesharp/), and [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.com) are examples of this license type.

In general, we prefer taking dependencies on licensed components in the order of the listed categories. In cases where the category may not be well known, we'll document the category so that readers understand the choice that they're making by using that dependency.

## Code of Conduct
This project's code of conduct can be found in the
[CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md file](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
(v1.4.0 of the https://contributor-covenant.org/ CoC).
