sdk/keyvault/azure-keyvault/README.md, before:

# Azure Key Vault client libraries for Python

This is the Microsoft Azure Key Vault libraries bundle.

This package does not contain any code in itself. It installs a set
of packages that provide APIs for Key Vault operations:

- [azure-keyvault-keys v4.x](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/azure-keyvault-keys)
- [azure-keyvault-secrets v4.x](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/azure-keyvault-secrets)
- [azure-keyvault-certificates v4.x](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/azure-keyvault-certificates)


## _Disclaimer_

_Azure SDK Python packages support for Python 2.7 has ended 01 January 2022. For more information and questions, please refer to https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues/20691_


## Install the package
Install the Azure Key Vault client libraries for Python with [pip][pip]:

```Bash
pip install azure-keyvault
```

## Documentation

Please refer to the individual packages for documentation.

## Contributing
This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require
you to agree to a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have
the right to, and actually do, grant us the rights to use your contribution.
For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether
you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label,
comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the bot. You will only
need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the
[Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct][code_of_conduct]. For more information,
see the Code of Conduct FAQ or contact opencode@microsoft.com with any
additional questions or comments.

[code_of_conduct]: https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/

![Impressions](https://azure-sdk-impressions.azurewebsites.net/api/impressions/azure-sdk-for-python%2Fsdk%2Fkeyvault%2Fazure-keyvault%2FFREADME.png)

Commit message:

[keyvault] Drop Python 3.6 support in packages
[keyvault] Drop Python 3.6 support in packages

chore: fix CHANGELOG.md typo

sdk/keyvault/azure-keyvault/README.md, after:

# Azure Key Vault client libraries for Python

This is the Microsoft Azure Key Vault libraries bundle.

This package does not contain any code in itself. It installs a set
of packages that provide APIs for Key Vault operations:

- [azure-keyvault-keys v4.x](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/azure-keyvault-keys)
- [azure-keyvault-secrets v4.x](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/azure-keyvault-secrets)
- [azure-keyvault-certificates v4.x](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/azure-keyvault-certificates)


## _Disclaimer_

_Azure SDK Python packages support for Python 2.7 has ended 01 January 2022. For more information and questions, please refer to https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues/20691_
_Python 3.7 or later is required to use this package. For more details, please refer to [Azure SDK for Python version support policy](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/wiki/Azure-SDKs-Python-version-support-policy)._

## Install the package
Install the Azure Key Vault client libraries for Python with [pip][pip]:

```Bash
pip install azure-keyvault
```

## Documentation

Please refer to the individual packages for documentation.

## Contributing
This project welcomes contributions and suggestions. Most contributions require
you to agree to a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have
the right to, and actually do, grant us the rights to use your contribution.
For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether
you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label,
comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the bot. You will only
need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the
[Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct][code_of_conduct]. For more information,
see the Code of Conduct FAQ or contact opencode@microsoft.com with any
additional questions or comments.

[code_of_conduct]: https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/

![Impressions](https://azure-sdk-impressions.azurewebsites.net/api/impressions/azure-sdk-for-python%2Fsdk%2Fkeyvault%2Fazure-keyvault%2FFREADME.png)
