sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/README.md, before:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- python
products:
- azure
- azure-health-data-services
name: azure-health-deidentification samples for Python
description: Samples for the azure-health-deidentification client library
---

# Samples for Azure Health Data Services de-identification service client library for Python
These code samples show common scenario operations with the Azure Health Data Services de-identification service client library.

| File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [deidentify_text_tag.py][deidentify_text_tag] and [deidentify_text_tag_async.py][deidentify_text_tag_async] | De-identify text using the tag operation |
| [deidentify_text_redact.py][deidentify_text_redact] and [deidentify_text_redact_async.py][deidentify_text_redact_async] | De-identify text using the redact operation |
| [deidentify_text_surrogate.py][deidentify_text_surrogate] and [deidentify_text_surrogate_async.py][deidentify_text_surrogate_async] | De-identify text using the surrogate operation |
| [deidentify_text_surrogate_only.py][deidentify_text_surrogate_only] and [deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async.py][deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async] | De-identify text using the surrogate only operation with specific entity tagging and input locale |
| [deidentify_documents.py][deidentify_documents] and [deidentify_documents_async.py][deidentify_documents_async] | De-identify documents in Azure Storage with an asynchronous job |
| [list_jobs.py][list_jobs] and [list_jobs_async.py][list_jobs_async] | List de-identification jobs |
| [list_job_documents.py][list_job_documents] and [list_job_documents_async.py][list_job_documents_async] | List the documents processed by a de-identification job |

## Getting started

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9 or later is required to use this package.
- You need an [Azure subscription][azure_sub] to use this package.
- [Deploy the de-identification service][deid_quickstart].
- [Configure Azure role-based access control (RBAC)][deid_rbac] for the operations you will perform.

## Setup
1. Install the Azure Health Deidentification client library for Python with [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/):
   
   ```bash
   pip install azure-health-deidentification
   ```
1. Clone or download this sample repository.
1. Open the sample folder in Visual Studio Code or your IDE of choice.

## Running the samples

1. Open a terminal window and `cd` to the directory that the samples are saved in.
2. Set the environment variables specified in the sample file you wish to run.
3. Follow the usage described in the file, e.g. `python deidentify_text.py`

## Next steps

Check out the [API reference documentation][api_explorer] to learn more about
what you can do with the Azure Health Data Services de-identification service client library.

<!-- LINKS -->
[api_explorer]: https://learn.microsoft.com/python/api/overview/azure/health-deidentification
[azure_sub]: https://azure.microsoft.com/free/
[deid_quickstart]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/healthcare-apis/deidentification/quickstart
[deid_rbac]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/healthcare-apis/deidentification/manage-access-rbac

[deidentify_text_tag]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_tag.py
[deidentify_text_redact]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_redact.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_surrogate.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate_only]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_surrogate_only.py
[deidentify_documents]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_documents.py
[list_jobs]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/list_jobs.py
[list_job_documents]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/list_job_documents.py
[deidentify_text_tag_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_tag_async.py
[deidentify_text_redact_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_redact_async.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_surrogate_async.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async.py
[deidentify_documents_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_documents_async.py
[list_jobs_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/list_jobs_async.py
[list_job_documents_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/list_job_documents_async.py

Commit message:

TEST: Health Deidentification SDK 1.2.0b1 preview release
- Updated to latest TypeSpec commit eebf27d637a5fb3864f685af45a82e2904f7cdec
- Bumped version to 1.2.0b1 for preview release
- Updated changelog with preview release entry
- Fixed samples README to meet Azure SDK documentation requirements
- Regenerated SDK code with latest spec updates

sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/README.md, after:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- python
products:
- azure
- azure-health-data-services
name: azure-health-deidentification samples for Python
description: Samples for the azure-health-deidentification client library
---

# Azure Health Deidentification client library for Python - Samples
These code samples show common scenario operations with the Azure Health Data Services de-identification service client library.

## Key concepts
The Azure Health Deidentification client library provides operations to redact, tag, and generate realistic surrogate replacements for Protected Health Information (PHI) in text and documents, along with asynchronous job management for bulk de-identification tasks.

| File Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [deidentify_text_tag.py][deidentify_text_tag] and [deidentify_text_tag_async.py][deidentify_text_tag_async] | De-identify text using the tag operation |
| [deidentify_text_redact.py][deidentify_text_redact] and [deidentify_text_redact_async.py][deidentify_text_redact_async] | De-identify text using the redact operation |
| [deidentify_text_surrogate.py][deidentify_text_surrogate] and [deidentify_text_surrogate_async.py][deidentify_text_surrogate_async] | De-identify text using the surrogate operation |
| [deidentify_text_surrogate_only.py][deidentify_text_surrogate_only] and [deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async.py][deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async] | De-identify text using the surrogate only operation with specific entity tagging and input locale |
| [deidentify_documents.py][deidentify_documents] and [deidentify_documents_async.py][deidentify_documents_async] | De-identify documents in Azure Storage with an asynchronous job |
| [list_jobs.py][list_jobs] and [list_jobs_async.py][list_jobs_async] | List de-identification jobs |
| [list_job_documents.py][list_job_documents] and [list_job_documents_async.py][list_job_documents_async] | List the documents processed by a de-identification job |

## Getting started

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9 or later is required to use this package.
- You need an [Azure subscription][azure_sub] to use this package.
- [Deploy the de-identification service][deid_quickstart].
- [Configure Azure role-based access control (RBAC)][deid_rbac] for the operations you will perform.

## Setup
1. Install the Azure Health Deidentification client library for Python with [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/):
   
   ```bash
   pip install azure-health-deidentification
   ```
1. Clone or download this sample repository.
1. Open the sample folder in Visual Studio Code or your IDE of choice.

## Examples
The table above lists runnable examples for synchronous and asynchronous usage of the de-identification operations and job management.

## Running the samples

1. Open a terminal window and `cd` to the directory that the samples are saved in.
2. Set the environment variables specified in the sample file you wish to run.
3. Follow the usage described in the file, e.g. `python deidentify_text.py`

## Troubleshooting
If you encounter authentication or authorization errors, verify RBAC configuration and that the service deployment has completed. For transient failures, implement retry logic using the Azure Core pipeline.

## Contributing
Pull requests and issue reports are welcome. See the repository CONTRIBUTING guidelines for details.

## Next steps

Check out the [API reference documentation][api_explorer] to learn more about
what you can do with the Azure Health Data Services de-identification service client library.

<!-- LINKS -->
[api_explorer]: https://learn.microsoft.com/python/api/overview/azure/health-deidentification
[azure_sub]: https://azure.microsoft.com/free/
[deid_quickstart]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/healthcare-apis/deidentification/quickstart
[deid_rbac]: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/healthcare-apis/deidentification/manage-access-rbac

[deidentify_text_tag]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_tag.py
[deidentify_text_redact]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_redact.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_surrogate.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate_only]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_text_surrogate_only.py
[deidentify_documents]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/deidentify_documents.py
[list_jobs]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/list_jobs.py
[list_job_documents]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/list_job_documents.py
[deidentify_text_tag_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_tag_async.py
[deidentify_text_redact_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_redact_async.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_surrogate_async.py
[deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_text_surrogate_only_async.py
[deidentify_documents_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/deidentify_documents_async.py
[list_jobs_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/list_jobs_async.py
[list_job_documents_async]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/tree/main/sdk/healthdataaiservices/azure-health-deidentification/samples/async_samples/list_job_documents_async.py
