sdk/keyvault/azure-mgmt-keyvault/README.md, before:

# Microsoft Azure SDK for Python

This is the Microsoft Azure Key Vault Management Client Library.
This package has been tested with Python 3.6+.
For a more complete view of Azure libraries, see the [azure sdk python release](https://aka.ms/azsdk/python/all).

## _Disclaimer_

_Azure SDK Python packages support for Python 2.7 has ended 01 January 2022. For more information and questions, please refer to https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues/20691_

# Usage


To learn how to use this package, see the [quickstart guide](https://aka.ms/azsdk/python/mgmt)


 
For docs and references, see [Python SDK References](https://docs.microsoft.com/python/api/overview/azure/?view=azure-python-preview)
Code samples for this package can be found at [Key Vault Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/browse/?languages=python&term=Getting%20started%20-%20Managing&terms=Getting%20started%20-%20Managing) on docs.microsoft.com.
Additional code samples for different Azure services are available at [Samples Repo](https://aka.ms/azsdk/python/mgmt/samples)


# Provide Feedback

If you encounter any bugs or have suggestions, please file an issue in the
[Issues](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues)
section of the project. 


![Impressions](https://azure-sdk-impressions.azurewebsites.net/api/impressions/azure-sdk-for-python%2Fazure-mgmt-keyvault%2FREADME.png)

Commit message:

[keyvault] Drop Python 3.6 support in packages
[keyvault] Drop Python 3.6 support in packages

chore: fix CHANGELOG.md typo

sdk/keyvault/azure-mgmt-keyvault/README.md, after:

# Microsoft Azure SDK for Python

This is the Microsoft Azure Key Vault Management Client Library.
This package has been tested with Python 3.6+.
For a more complete view of Azure libraries, see the [azure sdk python release](https://aka.ms/azsdk/python/all).

## _Disclaimer_

_Azure SDK Python packages support for Python 2.7 has ended 01 January 2022. For more information and questions, please refer to https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues/20691_
_Python 3.7 or later is required to use this package. For more details, please refer to [Azure SDK for Python version support policy](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/wiki/Azure-SDKs-Python-version-support-policy)._

# Usage


To learn how to use this package, see the [quickstart guide](https://aka.ms/azsdk/python/mgmt)


 
For docs and references, see [Python SDK References](https://docs.microsoft.com/python/api/overview/azure/?view=azure-python-preview)
Code samples for this package can be found at [Key Vault Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/samples/browse/?languages=python&term=Getting%20started%20-%20Managing&terms=Getting%20started%20-%20Managing) on docs.microsoft.com.
Additional code samples for different Azure services are available at [Samples Repo](https://aka.ms/azsdk/python/mgmt/samples)


# Provide Feedback

If you encounter any bugs or have suggestions, please file an issue in the
[Issues](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/issues)
section of the project. 


![Impressions](https://azure-sdk-impressions.azurewebsites.net/api/impressions/azure-sdk-for-python%2Fazure-mgmt-keyvault%2FREADME.png)
