sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/tests/samples/README.md, before:

## Recorded sample tests

Use recorded tests to validate samples with `SyncSampleExecutor` and `AsyncSampleExecutor`. Tests run the sample code, fail on exceptions, and can optionally validate captured `print` output through LLM instructions.

### Prerequisites
- In `.env`, set the variables required by your samples plus `AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true` and `AZURE_SKIP_LIVE_RECORDING=false` when capturing recordings. CI playback typically uses `AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=false` and `AZURE_SKIP_LIVE_RECORDING=true`.
- Provide sanitized defaults via `servicePreparer` so recordings do not leak secrets. All mandatory environment variables used by the tests/samples must be specified in `servicePreparer` (as sanitized values) so playback can run without access to real secrets.

**VS Code tip (record a single sample):** Open the **Testing** tab, expand the pytest tree to find the specific sample test case (for example, one parameterized case for a particular `sample_path`), then right-click it and choose **Run Test** (or **Debug Test**). Make sure your `.env` (or your test run environment) includes `AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true` and `AZURE_SKIP_LIVE_RECORDING=false` so that run captures a new recording for just that sample.

### Sync example
```python
import pytest
import os
from devtools_testutils import recorded_by_proxy, AzureRecordedTestCase, RecordedTransport
from test_base import servicePreparer
from sample_executor import SyncSampleExecutor, get_sample_paths, SamplePathPasser
from test_samples_helpers import agent_tools_instructions, get_sample_environment_variables_map

class TestSamples(AzureRecordedTestCase):
    @servicePreparer()
    @pytest.mark.parametrize(
        "sample_path",
        get_sample_paths(
            "agents/tools",
            samples_to_skip=[
                "sample_agent_bing_custom_search.py",
                "sample_agent_bing_grounding.py",
                "sample_agent_browser_automation.py",
                "sample_agent_fabric.py",
                "sample_agent_mcp_with_project_connection.py",
                "sample_agent_openapi_with_project_connection.py",
                "sample_agent_to_agent.py",
            ],
        ),
    )
    @SamplePathPasser()
    @recorded_by_proxy(RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE, RecordedTransport.HTTPX)
    def test_agent_tools_samples(self, sample_path: str, **kwargs) -> None:
        env_var_mapping = get_sample_environment_variables_map()
        executor = SyncSampleExecutor(self, sample_path, env_var_mapping, **kwargs)
        executor.execute()
        executor.validate_print_calls_by_llm(
            instructions=agent_tools_instructions,
            project_endpoint=kwargs["azure_ai_projects_tests_project_endpoint"],
        )        
```

### Async example
```python
import pytest
from devtools_testutils.aio import recorded_by_proxy_async
import os
from devtools_testutils import AzureRecordedTestCase, RecordedTransport
from test_base import servicePreparer
from sample_executor import AsyncSampleExecutor, get_async_sample_paths, SamplePathPasser
from test_samples_helpers import agent_tools_instructions, get_sample_environment_variables_map

class TestSamplesAsync(AzureRecordedTestCase):

    @servicePreparer()
    @pytest.mark.parametrize(
        "sample_path",
        get_async_sample_paths(
            "agents/tools",
            samples_to_skip=[
                "sample_agent_mcp_with_project_connection_async.py",
            ],
        ),
    )
    @SamplePathPasser()
    @recorded_by_proxy_async(RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE, RecordedTransport.HTTPX)
    async def test_agent_tools_samples_async(self, sample_path: str, **kwargs) -> None:
        env_var_mapping = get_sample_environment_variables_map()
        executor = AsyncSampleExecutor(self, sample_path, env_var_mapping, **kwargs)
        await executor.execute_async()
        await executor.validate_print_calls_by_llm_async(
            instructions=agent_tools_instructions,
            project_endpoint=kwargs["azure_ai_projects_tests_project_endpoint"],
        )
```

### Key pieces
- `@servicePreparer()`: A custom helper you create for your test suite. It supplies sanitized environment variables for playback (often via `EnvironmentVariableLoader`). The name is up to you; these examples call it `servicePreparer` by convention.
- Example:
```python
import functools
from devtools_testutils import EnvironmentVariableLoader

servicePreparer = functools.partial(
    EnvironmentVariableLoader,
    "azure_ai_projects_tests",
    azure_ai_projects_tests_project_endpoint="https://sanitized-account-name.services.ai.azure.com/api/projects/sanitized-project-name",
    azure_ai_projects_tests_model_deployment_name="gpt-4o",
    # add other sanitized vars here
)
```
- `@pytest.mark.parametrize`: Drives one test per sample file. Use `samples_to_test` or `samples_to_skip` with `get_sample_paths` / `get_async_sample_paths`.
- `@SamplePathPasser`: Forwards the sample path to the recorder decorators.
- `recorded_by_proxy` / `recorded_by_proxy_async`: Wrap tests for recording/playback. Include `RecordedTransport.HTTPX` when samples use httpx in addition to the default `RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE`.
- `get_sample_environment_variables_map`: Your function that returns a mapping of **sample env-var name** -> **test env-var name**.
    - The executor reads values from `**kwargs` using the *test env-var name* (typically injected by `@servicePreparer()`), then sets `os.environ[<sample env-var name>]` before running the sample.
    - If your `@servicePreparer()` (or other decorators) already provide the sample env-var names directly (for example, `AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT=...`), pass `{}` to `SyncSampleExecutor` / `AsyncSampleExecutor`.

Example:
```python
def get_sample_environment_variables_map(operation_group: str | None = None) -> dict[str, str]:
    return {
        "AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT":  "azure_ai_projects_tests_project_endpoint",
        "AZURE_AI_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME": "azure_ai_projects_tests_model_deployment_name",
        # add other mappings as needed
    }
```
- `execute` / `execute_async`: Run the sample; any exception fails the test.
- `validate_print_calls_by_llm` / `validate_print_calls_by_llm_async`: Optionally validate captured print output with LLM instructions and an explicit `project_endpoint` (and optional `model`).
- `kwargs` in the test function: A dictionary with environment variables in key and value pairs.

### Optional environment variables
To run the “hero path” of a sample, your `@servicePreparer` should provide all mandatory environment variables.
If a sample supports optional environment variables (for optional features/paths), use `@additionalSampleTests` to generate additional recorded test cases with those optional variables set.

```python
from sample_executor import AdditionalSampleTestDetail, additionalSampleTests

@servicePreparer()
@additionalSampleTests(
    [
        AdditionalSampleTestDetail(
            sample_filename="sample_agent_computer_use.py",
            env_vars={"COMPUTER_USE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME": "sanitized_model"},
            test_id="computer_use",
        ),
        AdditionalSampleTestDetail(
            sample_filename="sample_agent_computer_use.py",
            env_vars={
                "COMPUTER_USE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME": "sanitized_model",
                "SOME_FLAG": "true",
            },
            test_id="sample_agent_computer_use_with_flag",
        ),
    ]
)
@pytest.mark.parametrize(
    "sample_path",
    get_sample_paths(
        "agents/tools",
        samples_to_skip=[],
    ),
)
@samplePathPasser()
@recorded_by_proxy(RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE, RecordedTransport.HTTPX)
def test_agent_tools_samples(self, sample_path: str, **kwargs) -> None:
    ...
```

Notes:
- `AdditionalSampleTestDetail.env_vars` is a mapping of **sample env-var name** -> **sanitized playback value**.
    - Live/recording (`AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true`): reads the real value from your environment (for example, from `.env`) and sanitizes it to the provided playback value.
    - Playback (`AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=false`): sets each key to the provided playback value.
- `AdditionalSampleTestDetail.test_id` customizes the parameter id used for that variant.
    - If omitted, the id is auto-generated from the sample filename and env-var keys (for example, `sample_agent_computer_use-[COMPUTER_USE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME]`).
    - If provided, it becomes the full parameter id for that variant (no filename prefix).
    - If the auto-generated id makes the recording file path too long (most commonly on Windows), the recording file may fail to generate; set a short `test_id` (and keep it unique across all parametrized cases).
- In VS Code’s **Testing** tab, these show up as additional parameterized cases for the same test, using the parameter id.

Commit message:

make all tests using .test.env

sdk/ai/azure-ai-projects/tests/samples/README.md, after:

## Recorded sample tests

Use recorded tests to validate samples with `SyncSampleExecutor` and `AsyncSampleExecutor`. Tests run the sample code, fail on exceptions, and can optionally validate captured `print` output through LLM instructions.

### Prerequisites
- In `.env`, set the variables required by your samples plus `AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true` and `AZURE_SKIP_LIVE_RECORDING=false` when capturing recordings. CI playback typically uses `AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=false` and `AZURE_SKIP_LIVE_RECORDING=true`.
- Provide sanitized defaults via `servicePreparer` so recordings do not leak secrets. All mandatory environment variables used by the tests/samples must be specified in `servicePreparer` (as sanitized values) so playback can run without access to real secrets.

**VS Code tip (record a single sample):** Open the **Testing** tab, expand the pytest tree to find the specific sample test case (for example, one parameterized case for a particular `sample_path`), then right-click it and choose **Run Test** (or **Debug Test**). Make sure your `.env` (or your test run environment) includes `AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true` and `AZURE_SKIP_LIVE_RECORDING=false` so that run captures a new recording for just that sample.

### Sync example
```python
import pytest
import os
from devtools_testutils import recorded_by_proxy, AzureRecordedTestCase, RecordedTransport
from test_base import servicePreparer
from sample_executor import SyncSampleExecutor, get_sample_paths, SamplePathPasser
from test_samples_helpers import agent_tools_instructions, get_sample_environment_variables_map

class TestSamples(AzureRecordedTestCase):
    @servicePreparer()
    @pytest.mark.parametrize(
        "sample_path",
        get_sample_paths(
            "agents/tools",
            samples_to_skip=[
                "sample_agent_bing_custom_search.py",
                "sample_agent_bing_grounding.py",
                "sample_agent_browser_automation.py",
                "sample_agent_fabric.py",
                "sample_agent_mcp_with_project_connection.py",
                "sample_agent_openapi_with_project_connection.py",
                "sample_agent_to_agent.py",
            ],
        ),
    )
    @SamplePathPasser()
    @recorded_by_proxy(RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE, RecordedTransport.HTTPX)
    def test_agent_tools_samples(self, sample_path: str, **kwargs) -> None:
        executor = SyncSampleExecutor(
            self,
            sample_path,
            **kwargs,
        )
        executor.execute()
        executor.validate_print_calls_by_llm(
            instructions=agent_tools_instructions,
            project_endpoint=kwargs["AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT"],
        )        
```

### Async example
```python
import pytest
from devtools_testutils.aio import recorded_by_proxy_async
import os
from devtools_testutils import AzureRecordedTestCase, RecordedTransport
from test_base import servicePreparer
from sample_executor import AsyncSampleExecutor, get_async_sample_paths, SamplePathPasser
from test_samples_helpers import agent_tools_instructions, get_sample_environment_variables_map

class TestSamplesAsync(AzureRecordedTestCase):

    @servicePreparer()
    @pytest.mark.parametrize(
        "sample_path",
        get_async_sample_paths(
            "agents/tools",
            samples_to_skip=[
                "sample_agent_mcp_with_project_connection_async.py",
            ],
        ),
    )
    @SamplePathPasser()
    @recorded_by_proxy_async(RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE, RecordedTransport.HTTPX)
    async def test_agent_tools_samples_async(self, sample_path: str, **kwargs) -> None:
        executor = AsyncSampleExecutor(
            self,
            sample_path,
            **kwargs,
        )
        await executor.execute_async()
        await executor.validate_print_calls_by_llm_async(
            instructions=agent_tools_instructions,
            project_endpoint=kwargs["AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT"],
        )
```

### Key pieces
- `@servicePreparer()`: A custom helper you create for your test suite. It supplies sanitized environment variables for playback (often via `EnvironmentVariableLoader`). The name is up to you; these examples call it `servicePreparer` by convention.
- Example:
```python
import functools
from devtools_testutils import EnvironmentVariableLoader

servicePreparer = functools.partial(
    EnvironmentVariableLoader,
        "",  # optional env-var prefix (use non-empty if your test vars share one)
        AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT="https://sanitized-account-name.services.ai.azure.com/api/projects/sanitized-project-name",
        AZURE_AI_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME="gpt-4o",
    # add other sanitized vars here
)
```
- If all your test environment variables share a prefix (for example `TEST_`), pass that prefix as the second positional
    argument to `EnvironmentVariableLoader` and include the prefix on the keys you provide (for example,
    `TEST_AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT`).
- `@pytest.mark.parametrize`: Drives one test per sample file. Use `samples_to_test` or `samples_to_skip` with `get_sample_paths` / `get_async_sample_paths`.
- `@SamplePathPasser`: Forwards the sample path to the recorder decorators.
- `recorded_by_proxy` / `recorded_by_proxy_async`: Wrap tests for recording/playback. Include `RecordedTransport.HTTPX` when samples use httpx in addition to the default `RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE`.
- `execute` / `execute_async`: Run the sample; any exception fails the test.
- `validate_print_calls_by_llm` / `validate_print_calls_by_llm_async`: Optionally validate captured print output with LLM instructions and an explicit `project_endpoint` (and optional `model`).
- `kwargs` in the test function: A dictionary with environment variables in key and value pairs.

### Optional test environment variables mapping
If you need to remap the environment variable names provided by your fixtures to the names the sample expects, pass a dictionary via the `env_var_mapping` kwarg on the sample executors. When your fixtures already supply the sample-ready names, you can omit `env_var_mapping`.

```python
env_var_mapping = {
    "AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT": "TEST_AZURE_AI_PROJECT_ENDPOINT",
    "AZURE_AI_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME": "TEST_AZURE_AI_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME",
}
executor = SyncSampleExecutor(self, sample_path, env_var_mapping=env_var_mapping, **kwargs)
```

### Optional environment variables
To run the “hero path” of a sample, your `@servicePreparer` should provide all mandatory environment variables.
If a sample supports optional environment variables (for optional features/paths), use `@additionalSampleTests` to generate additional recorded test cases with those optional variables set.

```python
from sample_executor import AdditionalSampleTestDetail, additionalSampleTests

@servicePreparer()
@additionalSampleTests(
    [
        AdditionalSampleTestDetail(
            sample_filename="sample_agent_computer_use.py",
            env_vars={"COMPUTER_USE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME": "sanitized_model"},
            test_id="computer_use",
        ),
        AdditionalSampleTestDetail(
            sample_filename="sample_agent_computer_use.py",
            env_vars={
                "COMPUTER_USE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME": "sanitized_model",
                "SOME_FLAG": "true",
            },
            test_id="sample_agent_computer_use_with_flag",
        ),
    ]
)
@pytest.mark.parametrize(
    "sample_path",
    get_sample_paths(
        "agents/tools",
        samples_to_skip=[],
    ),
)
@SamplePathPasser()
@recorded_by_proxy(RecordedTransport.AZURE_CORE, RecordedTransport.HTTPX)
def test_agent_tools_samples(self, sample_path: str, **kwargs) -> None:
    ...
```

Notes:
- `AdditionalSampleTestDetail.env_vars` is a mapping of **sample env-var name** -> **sanitized playback value**.
    - Live/recording (`AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=true`): reads the real value from your environment (for example, from `.env`) and sanitizes it to the provided playback value.
    - Playback (`AZURE_TEST_RUN_LIVE=false`): sets each key to the provided playback value.
- `AdditionalSampleTestDetail.test_id` customizes the parameter id used for that variant.
    - If omitted, the id is auto-generated from the sample filename and env-var keys (for example, `sample_agent_computer_use-[COMPUTER_USE_MODEL_DEPLOYMENT_NAME]`).
    - If provided, it becomes the full parameter id for that variant (no filename prefix).
    - If the auto-generated id makes the recording file path too long (most commonly on Windows), the recording file may fail to generate; set a short `test_id` (and keep it unique across all parametrized cases).
- In VS Code’s **Testing** tab, these show up as additional parameterized cases for the same test, using the parameter id.
